Getting Started: The Model Repository
=====================================

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

    Lesson 1 <lesson1>
    Lesson 2 <lesson2>
    Lesson 3 <lesson3>
    Lesson 4 <lesson4>
    Lesson 5 <lesson5>


The **AnyBody Managed Model Repository (AMMR)** is a repository of
musculoskeletal models that has been implemented for AnyBody and a now
maintained by AnyBody Technology. The models are typically originally
developed by research projects at academic institutions or by AnyBody
Technology in collaboration with academic institutions.

The repository is divided into two parts - Body and Application.

The **Body** section contains necessary folders and files to assemble a
generic human body model. In most cases, there is no need to edit files
directly in this body folder, as they can be modified to individual
needs in each specific application. This section also includes all tools
to connect the body model to the environment, or to drive the model with
motion capture data.

The **Applications** section includes several demo examples that have
been created by AnyBody users or by AnyBody Technology to demonstrate
certain features of the AnyBody Modeling System. Some of those
applications are more sophisticated, some less, focusing on the feature
they want to explain. The models show examples from many different
fields like orthopedic or rehab, automotive/aerospace, sports and many
daily activities. Many of them match several categories. The application
folder is subdivided into subfolders including the following:

-  **Validation**: Models that compare to in vivo measurements.

-  **Examples**: Demo models in the area of orthopedic, rehab,
   automotive/aerospace, and daily activities. There is also more
   generic models such as MocapModel.

-  **Beta**: Some interesting models that have not been tested
   extensively but which are candidates for being included in the
   Examples sections.

More details can be found in the following lessons. We shall have a
closer look at the human model components in the AMMR and provide some
more information on how to work with the options (parameters) on this
model and how to build application models around it. There is no single
path to do this, so this will for most parts have the form of
recommendations.